Hello, dear listeners,
The Logistics of Storages course is open to your attention.
My name is Dmitriy Ivanov.
If you look at the contents of the video lecture,
it consists of the following six sections.
1. Introduction. General concept of logistics.
2. Current market characteristics of storage services
and vital logistics providers.
3. Classification of goods.
The fourth section is the main types of warehouse maintenance
The fifth section is the design and planning of warehouses
The sixth section is the management of the company's development and the problems of improving the warehouse operation
The purpose of our video course is to introduce students to the current state of the market of logistics providers
To show the problem of choosing a warehouse system depending on the purpose of the company and the strategies adopted
To reveal the modern operational processes of warehouse operation
To reveal the impact of the warehouse equipment on the efficiency of the warehouse operation processes
To identify the interconnection of the design of the warehouse and the efficiency of its organization
And to characterize the main ways of developing the warehouse system
Logistics
So, let's turn to the section of the general concept of logistics
The concept of economic logistics was finally formed in the 60s and 70s of the last 20th century
This was primarily due to the activities of Japanese and then European companies
They noticed that the situation in the market has changed from the market of the seller to the market of the buyer
It was assumed that companies had to chase their buyers, offering them a range of goods at minimal prices
This led to the issue of reducing costs. Therefore, in the 60s and 70s, especially after the corresponding crisis of the 70s
In developed European countries, in America and Japan, they finally paid attention to the use of logistics in the economic sphere
Before that, logistics was developed mainly in the military areas, in the field of supplying the army with food, clothing, and so on
In modern conditions, two approaches to the understanding of logistics were formed
The first approach is most common for the activities of small and medium-sized companies
The first approach assumes that logistics management is primarily management of all physical operations, including the delivery of goods, transportation to the consumer
Thus, logistics services are segmented and divided into different types of activities
The second approach assumes an integration approach
In addition to the management of goods, transportation and material flow operations, logistics also includes marketing
It is assumed that in integrated management, representatives of the marketing and logistics departments analyze the market of suppliers and consumers, coordinate demand and supply
and, in the end, build relationships with suppliers and consumers, and a logistical chain is built, which leads to the harmonization of the interests of the participants in the goods and transportation process
It was called the logistics of the supply chain
The definition of an expansion approach in logistics can be traced to the definition of logistics by the US Management and Physical Distribution Council
They define logistics as a wide range of activities, primarily related to the efficient movement of end products from the end of the production line to the buyer
They include the movement of raw materials from the source of supply to the beginning of the production line
They include transportation, storage, processing of materials, protective packaging, control of supplies, choice of production and storage locations, production of products, demand forecasting, marketing and even service to consumers
Thus, the main idea of this definition is, first of all, efficient processes of management of the movement of goods and flow
Based on this, logistics, from the point of view of management, is a process that involves planning, organization, mandatory control and management of goods and services, information and financial flows
Both direct and reverse, including all links of the supply chain
Once again, the distinguishing feature of the advanced approach in logistics is the integration approach
It is assumed that the participants of the logistics chain were able to reach an agreement with each other, they are mutually interested and share both benefits and losses, distributing risks throughout the logistics chain
Based on this, the integration of technical, technological, information and financial flows is assumed, with the separate links of the supply chain material into a single system of logistics management, material and information flows
And the main goal is to achieve the desired result with minimal costs in terms of time and resources
This definition once again tells us that such integration can be carried out only on the basis of modern advanced information technologies
Although, the old version of paper transactions and negotiations is also suitable
Logistics
Now let's look at the next question, the characteristics of the warehouse services market and the types of logistics providers
Market consideration will help us understand what services are mainly presented on the Russian market and what are the trends of the development of warehouse logistics in this block of logistics services
Pay attention to the diagram. This diagram shows that the potential of the Russian logistics market amounted to $120 billion by 2006
But the potential is a characteristic that characterizes not the offer, but the volume of demand for these services
As you can see, the demand for warehouse services is about 13%
But the sector of integration services is up to 32%, which means that over time, this process will develop and the integration approach will be more and more interesting for Russian manufacturers and Russian networks
In principle, the logistics sector gives an average profitability for 2006 of 7.5%, and the range of these percentages ranges from 2% to 38%
The factors of profitability of logistics services are, first of all, the effect of the scale of production, suggesting that when warehouse activity is organized for large-scale operations, the unit of storage and processing of orders becomes cheaper
The second factor that also affects the profitability of logistics providers is the range of services they offer. It is quite large, and these services are called added value services
Based on this, warehouse providers offer a large array of added value services, in addition to storage in the warehouse
The logistics market is developing rapidly in the recent years, and for the last few years, Login.fo and the relevant logistics providers have been participating in a competition for logistics providers
You can learn more about this information on the Login.fo website, but in this case, I am bringing you this diagram to show you the approximate structure of the modern offer of logistics services on the Russian market
These are the data for 2006. As you can see, 44% are transport and expedition companies, 32% are warehouse services, which interest us in this case
And equipment suppliers, information technologies, and other services take up a small share of the market, from 7% to 5%
The most organized and developed logistics providers offer both transport and warehouse services at the same time
Often, the history of a company begins with the provision of transport services, but at a certain stage they understand that the effectiveness of transportation is possible only when there are additional warehouse areas for intermediate cargo transfer
On the other hand, companies that specialized in warehouse services understand that they can offer additional value services for the end user
This is how you can characterize the development of the logistics market. First of all, the transparency of logistics companies is growing. This means that it is impossible to build an integrated logistics chain that provides comprehensive access to information without transparency and accountability
If large logistics companies want their services to be used, they increase transparency and accountability
The next trend is contracts that are more long-term, about 3-5 years, and are expected to have a strong connection to the supply chain
There is also interregional access to the export markets, and logistics providers help modern networks to pass through the regional markets
The next trend is cooperation, and unions are being formed. This is what I have already mentioned, when it is not effective to engage only in warehouse or transport activities, it is more profitable to organize a block that will represent the entire set of logistics services and eventually develop to a system integrator
The competence of logistics companies is growing, and assets are being shifted to information, and the development of so-called system integrators is taking place
Logistics companies are growing because their activities are reducing costs per unit of production, but their opportunities in terms of the range of services and geographical coverage are much higher
Logistics companies are in demand from large manufacturers and trading networks
The growth of the warehouse services market is shown by the growth of the logistics market due to the shortage of modern warehouses
The emergence of complex services, especially in regions of class A and B, and the emergence of Western companies in the regions, pushes the growth of demand for logistics services
The peak of activity is expected to reach 2006-2009, and by that time, companies are preparing, so the growth of the supply of logistics services is taking place
The average annual rate of growth of the regional market of logistics services without the Moscow region is expected to reach 17-18% by 2010
The Moscow region is developing at a faster pace, but the regional market is not lagging behind, and its development is interested in both foreign trading networks and domestic networks and domestic manufacturers
Especially if Russia joins the World Trade Organization to stimulate the international flow of goods
In conclusion, the most important trends in the warehouse market in modern conditions are high investment activity in regions, complex complexes are being built
The number of large warehouse complexes, namely class A, is increasing. Moreover, there is a trend when companies benefit from renting warehouse premises by large logistics companies
Moreover, they are often freed from ownership, and sell their own premises with a return on rent, which makes it possible to organize the provision of logistics services more profitably
Further, there are long-term and preliminary rental agreements at the early stage of building of facilities, and new large providers of logistics services have appeared, such as Logicon, Manblan, CargoCare and JTL
However, existing logistics companies are also developing, acquiring warehouse and transport capacities to provide such complex services. At the same time, it should be noted that the trend that is characteristic of the European market
is the development of specialized warehouse centers for industry needs, such as freezer warehouses or warehouses for storing products
For example, by 2012, Krasnoyarsk will be planned to build its own logistics center for the Krasmash plant, which is a manufacturer of weapons and satellite equipment
At this stage, this is still at the level of the local government decision, but Krasnoyarsk consumers of logistics warehouses are very interested in the general storage of this logistics center, so that not only Krasmash owners, but also other logistics providers can be admitted there
According to the assessment of the RU rental portal, if before 2006, investments in the development of warehouse activity were at the level of $ 0.25 billion,
then by the end of 2006, and probably will not increase further, these are investments at the level of $ 3 billion per year
I would also like to focus on the feature of the Russian logistics market, which is the outsourcing of cargo processing and, accordingly, characterizing existing logistics providers
What is outsourcing? It is assumed that recently companies engaged in production and trading activities are trying to identify the most profile types of their activities, which means determining key competencies
If, according to the company, the maintenance of the warehouse and, accordingly, the organization of the warehouse activity is not its profile activity, then such a company is advisable to transfer this type of activity to logistics providers that will carry out these services more professionally
Thus, if you look at the definition, then outsourcing of logistics services means a reduction or refusal of your own business process, usually not a key, not a profile, and not profitable, and the transfer of a part or all logistics functions or operations to a specialized company
In the slide presented to you, the definition of 3PL and 4PL companies of logistics service providers is given
These groups of providers are engaged in providing services on outsourcing
Please note that 3PL providers have their own assets and are able to solve all logistical issues for their clients, and they can perform both separate operations and provide complex services of such an integration direction, that is, to serve the entire chain of logistics services
4PL operators are already a system logistics integrator, and their main function is not to distribute goods, but to plan and coordinate the information flows of the client and optimize the supply chain based on information
As we can see, 4PL providers are not actively used in the Russian market. The leading foreign logistics company DHL offers complex integration services at the level of 4PL providers
But the Russian market reacts very coldly to such an offer. The distrust of Russian companies and consumers of such services is due to the fact that they are afraid to transmit all the information
Therefore, if 4PL services are organized by a company, then these are services that are provided by its subsidiary company
3PL services are already quite developed in the Russian market. For example, the national logistics company, which was engaged in transportation, has now acquired large warehouses throughout Russia for the service of such a well-known holding company as United Pastries
As you know, the manufacturers of such products are Mishka in the North, Babayevsky Zavod, and so on
Now let's look at the scheme. This scheme offers stages of development of logistics providers. At some stage, the company's internal logistics is developed, when it has its own warehouse
This is a warehouse for components, a warehouse for ready-made products, or an intermediate warehouse closer to the suppliers. This period refers to the 70s-80s, and the development of the own warehouse is called insourcing, when it is based on its own resources, reserves and opportunities
Usually, such a variant of logistics providers is called 1PL provider. It is assumed that you have logistics on one side, you are the owner and you offer services to your company
Two PL providers are small companies that offer logistics services, for example, transport services, and on short-term basis. These services are usually narrowly specialized, the range of services is small
Let's assume that the service of workers who offer transportation to Moscow is 2PL provider. They are disposable, non-systemic, but nevertheless exist. Of course, small and medium-sized companies can do this kind of activity
Three PL providers are already in the West, in the 80s and 90s. They offer complex logistics services, while they have their own assets, warehouses, and a transport park
The next stage for the West is the 90s and 2000s, the formation of a block of 4PL providers. These are system integrators that may no longer have their own assets, they only maintain relations with 3PL providers, they order the corresponding services
Thus, they completely fulfill the client's order, tracking all the information about the flow of goods. Of course, 4PL providers rely on very advanced modern information technology, on very good equipment that allows tracking the movement of the cargo in the online version
That is, at any time, in the current version, you can track where your cargo is, whether it is really on time and exactly on time, or you need to connect another performer to your order, who would still fulfill your order, insure this process
3PL providers are defined as providers that offer transport and expedition services, plus services of added value. If we rely on the existing services of added value on the Russian market, then the most popular are the 4 main groups of services
The first is manual cargo processing. The second is pre-sale packaging, marking, in particular, for promotional promotions, which is carried out by the marketing department to promote some product
The third is a small cell, which means that in this case, the order includes individual units that are finally completed into a single order
Another interesting area is the return logistics, which is also becoming relevant on the Russian market, because if you remember, according to the new consumer rights legislation, the consumer can return a product in the form of shoes, clothes, which, in their opinion, are not necessary
And with this return, you need to do something. The return to the holidays, for example, reaches 30% in a number of networks. This flow of return goods requires processing, sending to some stock centers
Nevertheless, you need to do something about it, and not open an additional warehouse where to dump the return of goods, although some companies are forced to resort to this option, open a warehouse of return goods
I will repeat once again, 3PL providers take this service and implement it
Let's move on to section 3. Let's consider the classification of the goods warehouses and try to find out the functions of them in the logistics system, and, accordingly, find out in more detail what services modern warehouses and various goods complexes offer
Pay attention, here is the logistics system, and you can imagine a logistics chain as a kind of material flow to which various logistics operations and functions are applied, transportation, storage, unpacking, repackaging, and so on
In the entire micro-logistics system, the purchase of raw materials begins, then at the level of production management and at the stage of production, a warehouse can arise. At the stage between the purchase of raw materials and production, a warehouse of raw materials and components can arise
In the production enterprise itself, intermediate warehouses can arise, at least at the output of the production process, we have a warehouse of finished products
Then, between the output and the manufacturer, a warehouse-distribution center can arise, and when we have almost reached the end consumer, the stores can have their own warehouses that perform additional functions
So, pay attention, the basic function of a warehouse is to create stocks, and to reduce the risk of a shortage of goods, intermediate consumption, I mean raw materials and components, or to reduce the risks in the trade sphere, so that the trading enterprises can adequately respond to the fluctuations of demand
This is the basic function, it corresponds to the traditional, more old-fashioned approach, but in modern conditions, the creation of stocks as an option for antitrust stocks is subject to detailed consideration and criticism, which is engaged in logistics as logistics of stocks
It is assumed that companies with an ideal development option minimize these stocks, they are freed from them, and this is why a new concept for the Russian market has become popular, which appeared in 2003, called Tochiya Logistics, or Lean Logistics in English
This is the approach, it assumes that companies are trying to find out their key competences, and are freed from unnecessary unprofitable assets, unnecessary activities
So, the basic function of a warehouse is to store, but this is not the only modern function, and the next two functions have become more popular
First of all, the consolidation function and the distribution function
The consolidation function. Please note that in this case, the warehouse does not serve as a reserve storage, but it is assumed that the warehouse, while performing the consolidation function, helps to reduce the costs of transportation
Imagine that the customer provides their needs, their demand, at the expense of a number of suppliers, and one of the options is direct delivery from the supplier, bypassing such an intermediary as a warehouse
Then it is assumed that this option of direct delivery is beneficial if the vehicle is fully loaded, and if the customer needs only one box from this supplier, then it turns out that he will transport unloaded vehicles at fairly high rates, and the costs of its production will increase
Thus, while performing the consolidation function, the warehouse helps the customer to work with various suppliers, the warehouse will accumulate orders for a given customer, and then the vehicle will be fully loaded with this order and delivered to the customer
In this case, the warehouse usually approaches the supplier to perform the consolidation function
The next function is the enlargement function
In this case, the warehouse is close to the customers, and if the customers are shopping centers, then the regional warehouse should be close to these shopping centers
And if the supplier is abroad, or in some other region, then large wholesale orders are transported to the warehouse, and the warehouse is already being disassembled, enlarged, and special orders are formed for each customer
As you can imagine, both of these functions can be combined in one warehouse, that is, the warehouse can simultaneously perform both the consolidation function and the enlargement function, which is what modern logistics centers do
In principle, the decision to build your own warehouse, rent it, or transfer this activity to outsourcing depends on the main logistics strategies that the company has chosen for itself
As you can see, I am talking about logistics strategies. Therefore, it is assumed that logistics is considered not only a warehouse manager or a transport department manager
In this case, the position of this manager is quite high, it is the higher level of management, at the level of the financial director, who develops the company's logistics strategy and then manages the entire logistics chain associated with the company's activities
The first strategy is to minimize the total logistic costs. The strategy is traditional from the point of view of the economy. Economists always recommend reducing costs for performing tasks and functions
Therefore, when performing tasks to minimize the total costs, they try to reduce the costs of storage. In this case, this is not the only cost, we also have the costs of transportation
It is assumed that schemes are calculated, according to which an optimal ratio of the number of transports, the number of storage places, the time of storage and the cost of storage is calculated
If the company considers that it needs a regional warehouse, it considers that it reduces the costs of transportation and it is profitable to carry out storage costs
If the company directly carries out large deliveries to its shopping centers, then it is more profitable to transport than to store. Its strategy will be aimed at reducing warehouse areas
The next strategy option that can also push the company to switch to outsourcing or to the construction of a large logistics complex is to improve the quality of logistics services
Certainly, the larger the warehouse activity, the more skills the personnel of such a warehouse complex acquire. And most importantly, these types of warehouses begin to perform services of added value, which we will talk about later
The third strategy proposed in this list is to minimize investment in logistics infrastructure. Of course, a modern warehouse complex is a large enough money. And each company, including the manufacturer, when making a decision to build such a complex, should assume that it will freeze millions and millions of rubles for some re-atlete
And the return will go quite gradually. Modern logistics projects began to be occupied not in 10 years, but in 3-5 years. But then the volume of work on such a warehouse complex should be so large that the company could pay its investment costs for the construction of the warehouse
In this case, as a result of calculations, the company can refuse its own warehouse and thus optimize its logistics infrastructure, or vice versa, acquire a warehouse if its volume of work, in particular, volumes related to the promotion of regions, is already such that it is necessary to have its own distributed center, such a warehouse complex
And the last point is the logistics outsourcing strategy, when a company makes a decision for itself, focuses on key areas and transfers this type of activity to a 3PL provider, which, in its opinion, is more efficient, rational, economical, and most importantly, on time and on time organizes everything
By the way, I would also like to draw your attention to the fact that the modern integrated approach to logistics assumes 7R, or 7 principles of high-quality logistics services
This is an exact delivery on time, in this place, in this volume, of this quality, to this particular consumer, at this price, and, accordingly, in the end, it turns out that such complex integrated logistics shows a special kind of warehouse activity when offering all these logistics services
By the way, the decision-making strategy on whether to have warehouses or not depends on the company's field of activity
Usually, in the production sphere, the approach is dominated by the so-called pulling system, which minimizes warehouse capacities, assuming that certain goods are delivered to the conveyor without any additional storage
This is a pulling system, when the next link of the logistics chain makes an order to the previous link of the logistics chain for a finished product or a complete set, and, accordingly, all this pulling goes in the opposite direction, that is, the previous link now receives an order from the next one in the next period of time
This technology is quite feasible in the production sphere, because there is a conveyor cycle, a technologically defined tight cycle, and this schedule of the production of finished products can be built by the delivery system and the management system, according to the JIT principle
As you can see, the scheme also reflects the name MRP, which stands for Material Resource Planning, which is written in English as a abbreviation
This material resource planning assumes the option of introducing a single system based on software, products, and equipment for production complexes
If the company is mainly engaged in trade, then the strategies that will be used are the pulling systems. It is assumed that the manufacturer is pushing the finished product to some wholesale supplier, then the wholesaler pushes this product to a smaller supplier
And so, in a chain, the product reaches the end consumer in the network, in some trading facilities
The DRP system, which is associated with the name of the distributive resource planning, assumes that these strategies are used primarily in trade
The names MRP and DRP have recently merged into one name, MRP-2, assuming that the software product is being used, which system integrators offer to install in your warehouse or in your trading center
In order to manage information about the flow of goods and services that pass through your logistics facility
The DRP system is associated with insurance reserves and the calculation of the point of order, that is, when it is necessary to replenish the reserves in a certain trading center
These reserves are a necessary link, because the demand is subject to strong fluctuations and is not predictable
Let's look at the next question, the development of the warehouse activity of the company, and in this regard it will be clear why there are new forms of warehouse organization
First of all, this is your own warehouse, if the company has its own warehouse, usually it is some small and medium-sized business
Of course, then the company is fully responsible for both permanent and operational costs
In this case, the majority of costs for small companies are permanent, since the payment of the workers of such warehouses is based on a permanent salary, and not on the provision of some types of work activities
On the other hand, the warehouse of very large companies, for example, specialized companies, can be its own
Imagine a bakery factory, and at the same time, if they produce, say, frozen dough, then they should have their own warehouse for storing frozen products, including frozen pies
But for bread, they practically do not need a warehouse, because bread is immediately packed from the conveyor and loaded into a certain vehicle and sent to the points of demand
Or, for example, their own warehouse is associated with the storage of frozen food, meat, fish, and everything else
Of course, even large companies will be associated with their own warehouse
Another variant of their own warehouse is that companies cannot store their products with other people's goods
You understand that it is almost impossible to combine storing fish and storing clothes
The leased warehouse is the next stage in the development of the warehouse activity of a company
If the company already has a large supply, it is often more profitable to rent a warehouse
It will save on investment costs, but will have to do its own warehouse activity and, accordingly, bear all the risks and operational costs of providing this warehouse activity
The next stage is outsourcing of the company's activity
Companies that transfer part of their logistic activity to outsourcing are expected to have fewer costs per unit of production
Due to the fact that not only permanent but also operational costs will be reduced
If we consider the organizational forms of outsourcing on the modern Russian market, we will find a contract on the service of responsible storage
In this case, the company, the warehouse, taking on the responsibility of storing your products, takes on all the warehouse functions
Moreover, it takes on all the risks of the safety of this product, especially if it has certain storage terms
And it takes on other functions for the formation of orders for your end consumers
But, of course, certain services cost money, and therefore you pay for these services at the price of the warehouse company
There is another option for the contract, in addition to the contract on responsible storage, as a contract on storage of things with a disinclination
This option is possible for standard and standardized types of products
Imagine that you have building materials stored in a warehouse, bricks, and bricks are mostly from the same factory
And you brought the same bricks there and gave them for storage
When the storage period expires, the total number of bricks stored is given to you
It is assumed that you do not require a special storage area for your products that you have determined for the warehouse
This option can save the company's costs
Let's consider the next question, which is related to the costs and risks of the company when renting
In this case, if the company is renting but does not transfer the warehouse rights to the trustful storage, it is engaged in its own warehouse activities
The only thing that the company will save on is the costs associated with long-term investments
First of all, such a company must solve its own personnel issues, look for specialized personnel, pay taxes related to insurance, and other taxes related to hiring personnel
Then there are the household and technical issues, which are on the shoulders of the lender
Because he has to buy storage equipment, buy equipment, service it for a certain period of time, repair it, and so on
There are some accompanying issues, such as the security of the warehouse, the cleaning of the territory, which is on the lender's shoulders
And most importantly, such a lender is responsible for the safety of the goods, the terms of the internal warehouse operations, the compliance of the relevant orders, and, of course, the safety of the equipment and the quality of the personnel
Let's consider the decision-making of the AboutSourcing company
First of all, a strategic assessment must take place
As we have already discussed, companies determine the area of their competence, that is, they decide what kind of activity is professional for them
And the most important thing that they cannot refuse, if they refuse, they will lose their face
And what kind of activity, in this case, warehouse, they can pass on to some external performer
The second stage is an operational assessment, that is, the company finds out how well or badly it performs these operations and, of course, at what costs
Therefore, the next, third stage of the decision-making of AboutSourcing will be a financial analysis
At this stage, it is necessary to decide what is cheaper, to organize your warehouse and its warehouse activity, or to transfer this activity to Outsourcing and, accordingly, to buy external storage services
And the last stage, so to speak, the final one, at which the company still looks at whether it is possible to make some financial investments, loans, is it possible to improve the services that their own warehouse provides
And, in principle, whether it is possible to use these resources or still refuse them
In each case, when the option is yes, it accumulates points for us to make a decision about the preservation of our own warehouse
In the case when negative factors accumulate, that is, higher costs, less correct organization, these will be points towards making a decision about outsourcing
And, in the end, the company can, so to speak, accept either the option of organizing the warehouse activity by its own, or the option of, for example, renting, or the third option of full outsourcing
What are the advantages of warehouse services in general, which we have already talked about, but in this case I would like to emphasize them again
Look, first of all, this is a concentration on profile activity, this is a concentration of all assets, financial and human
The second advantage is the use of experience and methods that are used by 3 PL firms
You gave them, they have been in this market for a long time, and, accordingly, can offer a larger range of services and better performance
The third advantage is that you reduce costs by using advanced technologies
The fourth advantage is that you increase the flexibility of existing processes and increase competition
The last advantage is that the quality of the product is improved due to the concentration of management resources on your profile activities
There are also negative effects of outsourcing on the company
If the company has decided to completely abandon its own warehouse, then it reduces the expertise of the company to this object
Accordingly, the personnel is deprived, and in order to organize such a type of activity in case of a failure, this organization will have to be carried out from scratch
The second disadvantage is that the company becomes more vulnerable after abandoning such activities
It now depends on 2 or 3 providers that offer it outsourcing services
The truth is that vulnerability depends on the features of the market structure
If this is the only warehouse in the region, then the vulnerability is high
But if there are a lot of such providers, then competition between them makes prices go down
Moreover, large modern providers, as I said, often have lower prices for a unit of storage or some operations
And you will benefit from using these services, despite the fact that there is a certain vulnerability
The third negative factor is the change in the organization's policy
It is assumed that this structural link of warehouses completely leaves your system
You switch to the system exactly on time, if you are a manufacturer
And so you plan the entire production process and the entire technological chain for managing the flow of goods and services
This minimizes the number of warehouses
Such a change in policy also means an impact on the personnel
You will refuse some part of the personnel
The morale of the personnel can be negative
Because the reduction of the personnel means that you will either get rid of these people or re-educate them
Or, as is often the case in the Russian market, just get rid of them without thinking about the social consequences
Nevertheless, if a large company switches to outsourcing, then such a frame rebuilding option can have a significant negative impact on the overall image
Now I would like to draw your attention to the relationship between the flow rate and the costs that change depending on the flow rate
And how this can affect the decision about outsourcing
In our diagram, the cost per unit of storage is represented by the Y axis
The costs that are in the intersection points of the flow rate and the Y axis are the constant costs
The costs that are represented in the diagram are the variable costs related to the number of services provided
What is the specificity here?
If your company has a low flow rate, then the initial costs for storing the warehouse are lower than with a large product
Because you don't need to organize this large warehouse complex
But as soon as you increase the flow rate and try to provide more services, the well-known Pareto principle of 20-80 works
When the last 20% of the list of services that you try to provide to your customer increase your variable costs exponentially, making your activity very inefficient
On the other hand, if you have a large flow rate, then the initial costs for storing the warehouse are high enough
Maybe you should spend millions of rubles on the brand promotion or some other basic functions
But in the future, when working with such a warehouse complex, the higher the flow rate, the more you can provide a variety of high-quality services
In general, the costs for a single service provided with such a large flow rate are much lower than with a small flow rate
Based on this scheme, it is assumed that when we consider the stages of planning the organization of the warehouse, the first stage of decision-making is the marketing study
In which the same demand and level of competition with other companies is determined regarding the flow rate that you are going to serve with the activity of your warehouse
Now let's consider the services of added value, which, as I said, are provided by 3PL providers
And on which, in modern conditions, networks and other large facilities react, for which the same service on the basis of their own trading or production areas would bring great troubles and higher costs in the calculation of a single processed product
Traditional services of added value assume that you have either a transportation service or storage service, as we consider the warehouse logistics, we have a storage service
Of course, in addition to storage, loading and unloading work can be performed at any warehouse
For example, loading of a car, why is loading a car a special service of added value?
Because you can load a car in a special way, as it is convenient for your consumer
Let's assume that in your large store, the long shelves of the temporary storage before the exhibition are filled into the hall, and then the closer shelves
Accordingly, in the transport service, when loading, you must first load the goods that will go to the closest shelves, and the last goods will be placed on the farthest shelves
This option speaks of the added value of the special service of loading of transport
Of course, insurance for both responsible storage and storage of goods in the warehouse is an additional service of added value
We will pay special attention to the cross-docking services and to the option of completing and sorting of orders, including palleting
In this list, the added value services are not limited, they could probably be continued, and in the next scheme we have a number of services of added value
In this case, this is the sorting of goods, which I have already told in detail, sorting of defective goods, utilization of defective products, marking, staking, and so on
In this list, I would like to draw your attention to the process of utilization of defective goods or the utilization of return
The situation in our logistics is that often for networks, this is about 30% of the flow of goods, and of course, something needs to be done with it, it must be utilized
Let's turn to the exclusive services of added value, which warehouses probably did not perform before
This is when a certain assembly and configuration takes place directly in the warehouse
In particular, in Europe, at the warehouse of auto parts, the Peugeot-Saturian concern, a certain refurbishment of the bumper takes place
Before sending the bumper from the warehouse to the main assembly conveyor, this bumper is supplied with an electric drive and headlights are installed on it
Such a small production process is directly at the warehouse. This option is possible in Russian variants, not only in factory warehouses, but also in warehouses that offer various options of services
For example, a ready-made product from the components is created at the warehouse
That is, a separate shock absorber is supplied, its metal part, and separate plastic parts for the shock absorber
And they are connected directly to the warehouse. Then these shock absorbers can be delivered to the trading network, which sells spare parts
Or some part of the shock absorbers, of course, goes to the factory where the assembly of machines is carried out
In principle, the option of creating a ready-made product can be brought, for example, by such a product as a watch
Again, the warehouse receives, especially with international deliveries, separately packed in special rolls, watches of famous companies
And the boxes, for example, are ordered in some other region of the world, where the production of these boxes is the cheapest
And in the warehouse, assembly is carried out, when the watch is packed in the corresponding branded boxes
Another interesting service of added value is picking
The name, as you know, came from English, which means just a set of orders
The second name of picking is commissioning, which is of German origin
But there is a nuance in the organization of picking as a service of added value in the warehouse
Artificial picking has become popular
It is assumed that the component collector, when collecting an order for a certain trading point, for some end user
He puts not whole containers, blocks or boxes in this order, but literally on a piece of this product
And such artificial picking is very laborious, high costs
Large warehouses can automate such picking
And, secondly, keep such extensive staff for commissioning
Of course, Russian trading networks also carry out such picking as a service of added value
In this case, the completion of the order can be carried out in two ways, depending on the organization of the product flow
The first way is to the product, then it is assumed that the order collector moves around the warehouse and completes the order
This option is beneficial if your order consists of large units of storage, at least boxes
And he puts these boxes in a cart or a bag, for example, a box with shoes
The second option is a product for a person
This option of picking is more profitable when there is this artificial picking
And quite a few units of picking is one piece of some product
For example, imagine that you are compiling New Year's gift sets
In this case, imagine a collector who runs in rows and puts candy in each box
It is very inconvenient, it is more profitable for him to stand in place surrounded by all these boxes with various candy products
And, accordingly, each type of product is laid out in gift sets in sequence
For example, first waffles, then cookies, then candies
The product for a person option is considered a more progressive option in terms of organization of the order completion
It is precisely due to the fact that these processes are automated in large warehouses
And, in fact, the selection of these boxes and goods for intermediate storage, for final completion, is done by either the machine
Or, let's say, a person armed with a sufficient number of automation tools
Well, the person-product, as I said, involves a large and substantial movement in the warehouse
Accordingly, possible errors and possible high time costs
There is another option of additional value services, this is pre-sale product processing
We have already considered it to a certain extent
It is assumed that, according to the order, there is a consumer enlargement or deconsolidation of the cargo
The cargo can be placed in some large boxes
And, most likely, this is a cargo that lies on pallets, on such pallets
And, accordingly, the task of pre-sale product processing is to select and complete the order in accordance with the demand of the store
Imagine, a large warehouse is usually formed from factory orders
And goods are delivered, for example, on the same pallets, enough for high-altitude storage
That is, the height of this package lying on the pallet is quite large
And in the store or on the network you have quite low shelves, so the pallet must be re-equipped
This option can also be
Consolidation of the order is when you collect a single order from different suppliers of the product
And then you send it further, and re-packaging
For example, you form a gift set
Stacking and product marking
In this case, stacking assumes that you receive some imported goods, on which there is no russified information about the product
Accordingly, you stick these very stamps
Such pre-sale product processing as a service of added value can be done not only by large warehouses, but also by small ones
In principle, we can imagine a warehouse of the group D of basement storage
Where consolidation and formation of orders, for example, gift sets, takes place
Suppose the company decided to hold a promotional campaign
Within which it offers a gift in the form of a lighter to each pack of cigarettes
Accordingly, this option must be somehow formed
Of course, packaging will be placed in this warehouse
First of all, these very boxes with cigarette packs will be placed
And, accordingly, boxes with lighters
And the supplier will take the pack, tie it in some way, pack the lighter
And form such a gift set
A rather tedious manual work, which can certainly be done not necessarily on a large, but even on some small warehouse
The next service is the added value of the cross-docking
Here I would like to draw your attention to the fact that, in principle, it would seem that cross-docking performs the same functions as the pre-sale product processing service
Since within the framework of cross-docking, the product is also consolidated
And then its deconsolidation and shipment to some points
What is the exception then?
Why cross-docking and pre-sale service are slightly different things?
The first definition that you see on this diagram
Cross-docking is primarily a logistical operation within the supply chain
In this case, it is assumed that the processing of orders in the warehouse takes place in a very precise period of time
Literally at the moment X, when the next transport is delivered, which will then go to the consumer
The next feature
If we have pre-sale service, so to speak, the formation of orders implies the possibility of long-term storage of the product from which, for example, gifts or sets are formed
Then cross-docking completely eliminates the logistical storage of the product in the warehouse
Long-term storage
Cross-docking means that the product literally crosses the warehouse and then moves to the consumer
Therefore, the next main feature is that the product leaves the warehouse within 24 hours
This is, so to speak, such a high-quality feature of cross-docking
Of course, companies that offer such a service sign a contract for cross-docking
There is a very strict technology of receiving, discharging of products and a very strict schedule for the supply of goods and for the unloading of goods
Because the risks of being late in this technological logistic chain will fall, including the warehouse, which, according to the contract, may be fined for the expiry of the operation on cross-docking
There are two types of cross-docking
One-stage cross-docking and two-stage cross-docking
In principle, such a two-stage or, as they say, a mixed version of cross-docking often even assumes
True, a mixed version is already the third version of cross-docking, which assumes a slightly longer storage of products in the warehouse than 24 hours
Companies, as it were, agree in addition, not having time to deliver some product on time
One-stage cross-docking assumes that the cargo passes through the warehouse as a separate order without changes
So, according to our scheme, orders are received from suppliers of factories, look at the scheme
Orders are usually formed in the form of pallets, and the order on the pallet is packed in stretch film
And it is packed in such a way that you should not violate it and do not even have the right to do so
Therefore, when such an order comes from the factory to the warehouse, the main rule of the receiver is to check whether this stretch film is violated
Then this order in the form of a pallet is sent to the customer. Why do you need a warehouse then?
The warehouse is needed to, as I said earlier, when the order is completed, it is needed to save on transportation costs
If you need to bring only one pallet to the store, and, accordingly, the products are formed on this one pallet, then it is quite expensive to drive the transport for this one pallet
Of course, the store will want to receive its orders from 1, 2, 3, 4, 5 enterprises, which will offer a certain number of pallets of places
And when the truck that carries you to the store is fully loaded, it will eventually leave
Accordingly, such a one-stage cross-docking generally implies that the transport from the customer, from the store, is driven to the warehouse
And it is simultaneously such a temporary reserve storage warehouse, where the orders from various manufacturers are accumulated
Accordingly, you can imagine such an area, on which there are several trucks from various stores
And the company that arrived from one factory brought, let's say, 10 pallets, laid them out on these trucks, from another factory again laid out on these trucks
As soon as the trucks are filled, the order is completed, and it is sent further to the store and to the network
Again, I will emphasize the very clear schedule, because it is assumed that there should be a docking of the time of the transport, both on the one hand and on the other
And the warehouse workers will help to form the loading of this transport
Two-stage cross-docking implies that we have a certain area, an intermediate storage area
And these sections, for example, each section for 50 pallets of places, are marked by charged consumers
And within 24 hours, in a more calm mode, pallets are accumulated in these sections, which come from different manufacturers
And as soon as the number of pallets has reached the size of the transport, it is loaded into the store
And two-stage cross-docking can assume such a stack of added value as, in general, the disassembly of this order
That is, if your store does not need a fully loaded pallet of mustard, but only one box of mustard
Then you will certainly ask to disassemble the order and order your box that you need
But, let's say, your store will consume a whole pallet of paper towels, or maybe two or three
And, accordingly, the order will go completely from the manufacturer's point of view
Thus, as you can see, if you summarize my story and look at the distinctive features of cross-docking from pre-sale processing of goods
Then the first is the operation with orders, namely, not with goods
Accordingly, these orders are registered with the corresponding documents, and they are, so to speak, marked that they are included
The order is completed by the seller of goods on the unloading
And the warehouse, often with one-stage cross-docking, does not interfere at all, does not violate the packaging of this order
Accordingly, each pallet of place is marked with various reference materials
There are stickers where this cargo should go, to whom this order is provided to, to what end consumer
And the responsibility for the safety and completion of this product lies with the supplier
Accordingly, the warehouse does not take risks
And the last moment, with good organization, the order is received to the warehouse directly before the unloading
Which gives some benefits for the warehouse of cross-docking
The benefits of cross-docking in general, in terms of logistics, are all chains
The logistic cycle is reduced, the storage time is reduced to a minimum
The number of intermediaries is reduced, the costs of storage are reduced
And the costs of transportation are reduced, since the means of transport are fully loaded, and they are driven, so to speak, by postmen
And the costs of equipment are reduced for the warehouse when performing such a service
Now let's move on to the next section, the consideration of the types of warehouses
Since the classification of types is such that we will consider the functions of these types of warehouses and what types of activities are carried out here
The first type is corporate and commodity warehouses or their own warehouses, which I have already mentioned
They belong to the company, or there is even an option when they are leased to it, but on a long-term basis
And then, accordingly, the company takes risks of investment, long-term use of warehouse capacities and obligations, which I have already mentioned, before the warehouse staff
But corporate and commodity warehouses are needed for various reasons
Specialized storage, incompatibility with the product, and the amount of work is sufficient to maintain such a warehouse
In this case, corporate warehouses can be in the field of trade, and then the corporate warehouse performs several functions
On the one hand, this is the function of the commodity warehouse, the sorting function and the storage function of stock for the trading network
And on the other hand, it performs additional functions, such as the function of purchases and redistribution
And in general, the company gains a profit from the economy on the scale of activity
If the corporate warehouse is a manufacturer's company, then the main goal is to combine the flows of components
The completion of ready-made products in some regional centers, if this is a regional warehouse
And another function is the storage of limited goods for the storage of general use, for example, oil and chemical warehouses or pharmaceutical warehouses
The factory corporate warehouse has a main storage function
This is a warehouse of either ready-made products for the further distribution of risks to the network
This can be a warehouse of spare parts and components, both for assembly and for dealers
And a warehouse of utilities for outdated components, excess packing material, and so on
The second group is the commodity warehouses of general use
These are the commodity warehouses of general use, where 3PL services are offered
When it is assumed that products are stored in this warehouse together
Different manufacturers, different consumers, and additional value services are performed
And of course, we can list the benefits of the general use warehouse
First, as always, the absence of unprofitable assets
Second, the presence of modern equipment
Third, flexibility in compensating for the demand for components, in this case seasonal
Access to a wide geographical region, if this is a regional warehouse
Again, the use of the economy from the scale of production
Reduction of costs for transportation during consolidation, during the unification of goods, which we have already considered in detail
The disadvantages of the general use warehouses
As always, when outsourcing, the loss of control over the warehouse, the increase in the cost of the warehouse activity paid services
But I will repeat once again, the firm that makes decisions about such a joint outsourcing
It should, of course, consider all pros and cons
Now, to use your own warehouse or a general use warehouse
Ideally, a good financial analysis should be carried out
But, in principle, you can calculate the so-called point of profitability on the basis of a rather primitive scheme
And see what is the amount of total costs, what is the throughput, what is the flow
If we have a fairly large increase in total costs due to the increase in your throughput
Despite the fact that you transfer the services of the general use warehouse to the warehouses, it is assumed that you save on constant costs
But the services of an added value will cost you money
Based on this, as we see, the total costs graph starts to rise
And the higher your throughput, the more goods and flow, the more often it is profitable for you to organize your own warehouse
Yes, you will initially spend a lot of money on an investment project
But then, in the future, the effect of saving on production will create a positive effect
And, accordingly, the warehouse of a large firm will be quite profitable
Another option for such a joint storage warehouse is a contract warehouse
But in this case, it is assumed that this is a long-term contract
At the same time, it is possible to rent unique and specialized services in such a contract warehouse
Storage of specialized products, providing unique services
Thank you for watching